Simulation of On-Chip Spiral Inductor Using Ansys Q3D — Lesson 3 - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JAdJRWlKTqI

Transcript:
(00:00) And welcome to this introductory video about the Ansys Q3D extrator and in the previous video we detailed what is Q3D and we defined the necessary steps to launch the Q3D simulation and in this video we're going to provide a step-by-step process using Q3D by setting up and analyzing a planner spiral design.
(00:30) We're going to use the student version of the Ansys electronic desktop AEDT for short. Now spiral inductors they've been around for long time. For example they're used as main design element in the LC tank circuits in filter design. They can be used as an impedance matching elements in many passive elements such as antennas or part of an active design including amplifier bias design and biased designs even for diode, transistors or even oscillators.
(01:04) Now the application of 5G and IoT devices they've actually created even greater need for on chip planner spiral inductors and with that growing demand for wireless power transfer as well. So these on chip spirals they're widely used in wireless power transfer particularly in hand held devices and in the existing hand held devices shape and size become important.
(01:30) So its not only the electrical design its also physical format and there are many shapes that a spiral can take on. It could be circular, they can be rectangular or even some other polygonal shape. Basically, a spiral is made of coupled lines and what matters to us is the amount of coupling because we want achieve a specific inductance values.
(01:55) Now the electrical inductance value dependent on the line spacing, the width of the trace, location to other signals or ground. Remember where is the current including the number of the turns in that spiral, the substrate material what does it sat on. Let's create a quick spiral in Q3D. Here's is the interface of the AEDT student version shows a blank project.
(02:20) In that desktop tab select Q3D design and insert it into the project. Let see and view what does default design settings saved. In that project manager window right mouse click on the Q3D design and select design setting. So you could view the project's default setting. In that tab name set material override check it.
(02:44) This enables the material override feature and this says to the solver if there are any overlaped in dielectric or conductor geometry use the conductor. Consider that for the simulation override the dielectric and for this model this is what we want. Go ahead and check it. Background material tab just see default background material is vacuum.
(03:09) Fine. Under lossy dielectric use causal material. Ok. Under that S parameter tab use transmission line model Fine. Under the validation entity check perform full validation check. Why not? Both good for this model. So now to create the model navigate to the draw tab above the ribbon area click on it. Select user defined model select 'On die spiral inductor'.
(03:37) A new window pops up. Ansys's UDMs automatically create you a model geometry to analyze. The model geometry is parametrized and it could be further processed in the Ansys EM modeler. Parametrize allows you more variation. Select the parameter tab and the design parameters are shown with some default values.
(04:00) You can go ahead and modify these parameters as required. Go ahead and browse to the column named 'Inductor type'. In the adjacent right column that's name value click on it and you'll see a list of inductor types that are also available. Select the octagonal type for our demonstration. Don't forget to click ok to accept the changes and now you notice that the spiral inductor is created in the background and you see all the AEDT windows opening up.
(04:30) just a few clicks and here we have some model geometry for spiral inductor. No simpler way to do this. In the model history tree you'll see the objects that were created for this spiral geometry with its named as object inductor paddle assigned to copper types, silicon is used as a substrate. What we need to do is assign nets.
(04:52) As detailed in that introductory video you can either assign nets manually or automatically. Let's do automatically. In that project manager window right mouse click on net category select auto identify net and both the inductor and paddle are automatically assigned as nets. Now let's go ahead and assign the excitation to the inductor and this make it easier in the 3D modeler window pane.
(05:16) Select the object name inductor right mouse click. Select view and then select show only selection in the active view and let's be sure in the face selection mode just press that F key on your keyboard. Now select one of those two inductor faces that are aligned in the X axis. In that 3D modeler window right mouse click on the assign excitation.
(05:40) Select one of them and select it as a source. In that popup window for source keep the default and click ok to accept. Now do the same for the other face. Select and assign sink as the excitation. Again keep the default and click ok to accept. Now we need to add a solution setup for the model. In that project manager window right mouse click on the analysis category select 'Add solution setup'.
(06:06) In the solve setup window you can now see by default capacitance , conductance, DC resistance and inductance, AC resistance or inductance they're all selected. Keep them selected. Check on the save fields option for field visualization. This is why you're using this EM tool. View on each of the specific solver and what the default solver related settings are these are editable.
(06:31) So you can modify this. For this demonstration let's keep all the defaults. No need to really change them and click ok to accept the solution setup. Go ahead and expand the analysis category right mouse click on the setup and select add frequency sweep. Select interpolating as the sweep type and enter a frequency range as shown.
(06:54) Click ok to accept the sweep. Now we're all done with required steps for a Q3D simulation. Click on the simulation tab below that ribbon area and select validate just to double check you have everything that's necessary. Validate that design. Now go ahead click on analyze to start the simulation and once that simulation is completed go to the project manager window and right mouse click on the results category.
(07:24) It's spiral inductor so we're interested in inductance values. So let's see what is happening to that inductance value. Select create matrix report rectangular plot. Under the category select ACL matrix, and under the quantity select ACL inductor source1 inductor source1 the inductance spiral. Click on new report to generate that plot and what do we see as frequency increases the inductance is decreasing.
(07:55) So it's expected but now if your intended value is higher than what you had design perhaps add another turn or make traces closer quick play using the UDM or conversely if the intended value is to be lowered do the opposite. reduce the number of turns and increase the spacing or again perhaps change the substrate.
(08:15) You can do anything in simulation. Now let's see what's happening to the capacitance. Select create matrix report rectangular plot and under the category select C matrix and under the quantity select C inductor to inductor the capacitance of that spiral C paddle to paddle the capacitance effect of ground and now C inductance to paddle capacitive effects of the substrate.
(08:41) of that silicon. You can plot each one separately or place them all on one plot to compare use different axis. Use one plot for the self and one plot for the substrate and you can see the self capacitance of the inductor and ground what is that expected frequency increases the capacitance is decreasing. Now when you look that plot for C paddle to inductor you can see the effects of the capacitance increases with frequency.
(09:09) So, perhaps our interest is increasing the inductance value will need to reduce this capacitive value. Perhaps in our creative in ground design. Go ahead modify the geometry and rerun the simulation. It didn't take that long and similarly you can plot the conductance, the DC L and R, the AC L and R plots. They're all available.
(09:33) Now the power of the EM simulation is to visualize the plot. Now let's plot the EM fields of the spiral inductor right mouse click on the inductor object in the model tree window. Select AC RL fields Mag_surfaceJ_AC. Retain all the defaults in the popup window and click on done to plot AC surface current magnitude.
(09:58) Now let's modify this field plot. Double click on the field plot color key and in that popup window click on the scale tab. In the field next to the number of divisions increase that number to say 50. Having more divisions will result in a smoother plot. You can also modify the color limits of these plot By default a limit that are applied automatically based on the results.
(10:23) You can also specify the min and max values for these limits. If required you can also use the log scale to improve the plot visualization. Let's go ahead and select the log scale for this plot. Close this window and lets plot the E field on the substrate's top face. Switch to the face selection mode select the top face of the substrate and right mouse click on it.
(10:48) Select CG field E mag_E. Retain all the defaults in the popup window and click on done to plot the electric field magnitude. Note that how the E field is varying along the spiral. You can also animate these field plots to get more insight on how to EM fields interact with each other. In the project manager window right mouse click on the electric field plot and select animate.
(11:16) In the popup window retain all the default values for the the start, the stop and step. Click on ok to accept. Here you go. You can see how the electric field varies with its phase and in this way you can also animate any required field quantity. So in this video we detailed step by step workflow in Q3D. We designed an on chip spiral inductor using the installed UDM feature which automatically created the model geometry.
(11:50) Thankyou for watching this video and for more videos and information on our Ansys electronic tool or any of our Ansys simulation tool please go to ansys.com/courses today.
