3D Magnetostatic Simulation of EMB Using Ansys Maxwell — Lesson 4 - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jefV05StVj0

Transcript:
(00:00) And welcome back! and in the previous video, we have completed the geometry creation for the EM brake example and in this video we are going to continue with the next steps in the simulation process and we are going to create a setup, the excitation, the boundary conditions, the analysis with a parametric analysis and then view the various results as we vary the airgap and see what its effects are.
(00:42) So, go ahead launch the Ansys Electronics Desktop again AEDT for short student version. Open the EMB file that we saved from the EMB example part 2 and notice in this model that the core and the coil are touching each other. So, we need to add some space between them and now we can do this by assigning an insulating boundary condition around the coil.
(01:09) Go ahead and expand the model tree and select the folder name solids and select the coil. Right mouse click on it assign boundary > insulating. Now the insulating boundary in the magnetostatic 3D solver is the only assigned internal boundary condition and this boundary only affects the 3D conduction paths and it acts as an insulating surface to prevent the current flowing from one conductor to another.
(01:41) The default boundary condition in Maxwell is tangential fields and so what that means that the region must be large enough to allow for fringing fields. Now we don't need any additional boundary conditions for this model. So, next we need to assign the excitation to the coil. The current excitation defines the total current that goes through the selected cross-section in ampere turns.
(02:08) In this model, we have a closed coil. So, we need to create a section in the coil so that we can insert an excitation. Select the coil right mouse click edit > surface > section and in that pop up window select the XZ plane and click OK. Go ahead select the created selection under sheets. Right mouse click edit > boolean > separate bodies and notice now that we have two sections under the sheets and we only need one.
(02:39) Select one of the sections and press delete. Go ahead and select the remaining section. Right mouse click > Assign excitation > Current and leave the name as current1. Under the properties value write Amp*Turns. Two variables here. Now, this is going to allow us the parameterize the number of turns and the current that's flowing through each of these turns.
(03:05) Go ahead select the type of stranded. and you can also swap the direction of the current using the swap direction radio button. and you can keep the any direction here and go ahead click OK. On the popup window for Amp, the variable keep the unit type as current, change the unit to Amps and the value to 1. Click ok.
(03:28) and another popup window opens for Turns, and change the unit type to None and the value to 200. Click OK. You can always click the design name in that project manager window and you will view the defined variables in the properties panel. Now, when your in that properties panel You can also double click on any of the parameter values to edit these variables.
(03:57) So, we need to assign the force parameter to the brake plate to calculate the force that exerted by the electromagnetic core on it. Go ahead and select the brake plate right mouse click assign parameter > force. and in that popup window, keep the name as Force1 go ahead select the type as virtual. and the Lorentz force is a J X B type of force calculation and that only works for selections of non-magnetic material objects which are carrying currents.
(04:32) Now, the virtual force calculation uses a virtual work approach on these surfaces on the selected objects. So, therefore it works fast when there is some sort of air gap surrounding the selected objects or the assembly. Click OK. Under the draw tab click on the create region icon. in that popup window choose “pad all directions similarly”, enter 100 for the value column.
(05:03) Click OK. Right click on the analysis setup select add solution setup and in that solve setup popup window, go ahead and keep the defaults, click OK. So, now let's add a parametric setup. Go ahead right mouse click on the optimetrics folder add > parametric. in the popup window select add. Another popup window comes up, choose the variable gap, set linear step.
(05:31) and let's be a little realistic here and set up something that's practically possible set up the sweep with the start value 0.2 millimeter, Stop at 1 millimeter, make the step size 0.1 mm. Click add, click OK. Now select the table tab next to the sweep definition so the you can view the various gap variables.
(05:54) Go to options tab and select save fields and mesh and this will save the fields for each iteration. Click OK. Go ahead right mouse click on the mesh and select initial mesh settings. In that popup window curved surface meshing move to the cursor towards the left say approximately 3 and we are doing this just to make sure that the number of mesh elements that are created is within the limit for the student version.
(06:25) If you have the full version go ahead keep the default and you can even make the initial mesh setting finer. In the simulation tab click on validate the big green check mark to validate the design that you have the necessary steps completed and be sure there is no errors to be addressed. So, this completes the model setup.
(06:47) So, lets go and analyze the parametric design. Go ahead expand optimetrics under the design right mouse click on the parametric set choose analyze and when the analysis is done right mouse click on the results create a magnetostatic report rectangular plot. Keep the solution as setup1 LastAdaptive, go ahead change the parameter to Force1.
(07:14) Choose the quantity as Force_mag and click on new report. Now, this plot is a force vs gap representation. So, you can clearly see from this plot that there is a drop in the force acting on the brake plate with the increase in the airgap. So this sounds reasonable as the airgap increases the reluctance to the magnetic field increases and hence the reduction in force.
(07:42) and on the same way you can also perform a parametric analysis with turns and amp variables and then view the variation of the force versus turns, amps and gap. To view the field plot, double click on that design name to go back to the 3D modeler window. Go ahead and expand the planes under the history tree, select global:XZ plane.
(08:07) Right mouse click on the field overlays select the fields > B > mag_B. and when the pop up window comes up select Mag_B under quantity and click done and now you can see that the magnetic flux density plot on the planar cross section of the EMB plate. You can also animate these fields makes for nice visualization.
(08:29) Right mouse click on the mag_B1 in the field overlays and select animate. In the the popup window, under swept variables select the parametric setup from the dropdown menu and ParametricSetup1 and now you will see all the variations of the ParametricSetup1 which is gap. Click OK. Now you see the variation of the flux density in the core and the brake plate with the change in that airgap variable between them.
(09:00) You can control the speed of the animation as well you can export the animation as a video file. So, thank you for watchin this video and in the next video we will see how we can create a 2D version in a few steps using this 3D model and then compare the results between them. Between Maxwell 2D and the Maxwell 3D simulation.
(09:24) What's the difference? Go ahead visit courses.ansys.com and watch our other video modules on all of the Ansys simulation tools as well as any related topics.
